# Community Highlights Archive Data
git submodule used by the Community Highlights Archive site builder

Note: this repo is not for making suggestions for content to be highlighted, it is for content that has already been
	highlighted.

# Contributing

## Meta Values
The meta value are associated with images manually, automated no image processing applied.
* Sometimes meta values are added in response to something featured in a new Community Highlights video
* Sometimes aspects of a Community Highlights entry weren't noticed 🤷‍♂️

### Adding an existing value to an image
This is a general guide for making PRs against this repo.

1. Find the corresponding JSON document for the image
   * Discord, Reddit, Twitch clips, Twitter, and YouTube-sourced entries have their own separate files
   * Entries with no source found at the point of processing will be in `data/has-author-but-no-links.json`
   * Entries that had a source at some point will be in `data/has-author-but-no-links.json` rather than the
       corresponding JSON file for that website/service.
   * Entries that have additional imagery extracted from the Community Highlights YouTube video itself will also be
       found in `data/has-author-but-no-links.json`
2. Locate the entry in the file(s) for the image you are adding the additional meta value(s) to.
3. Add the value to the appropriate property/sub-object
   * Files validated by `data/image-sources.schema.json` have a per-image `highlightsMeta` array
   * Files validated by `data/twitch-clip-images.json` or `data/yt-dlp.schema.json` have
       sub-objects with a `meta` property.
4. Save the file & commit the changes.

### Renaming an existing value
Please don't 😅. Please instead file an Issue to have a meta value changed.

### Adding a new meta value
Please edit `data/highlights-meta-to-add.json` rather than making changes to the various data files as portions
	of that process are already handled by the site builder.

#### Example
```json
{
	"some new meta value": [
		"https://i.reddit.it/some-reddit-image.png",
		"https://pbs.twimg.com/media/some-twitter-image.jpg",
		"yt-dlp/some-youtube-id@timestamp.png"
	],
	"some other meta value": [
		"https://i.reddit.it/some-reddit-image.png",
		"https://pbs.twimg.com/media/some-twitter-image.jpg",
		"yt-dlp/some-youtube-id@timestamp.png"
	]
}
```

# files

## `data/by-youtube-video`
YouTube video descriptions with chapter markers are in sub-folders for their YouTube video id with the prefix `yt-`,
	with the filename `desc.txt` e.g. `data/by-youtube-video/yt-Ny6KcOCdABM/desc.txt`

For Community Highlights not sourced from the Community Highlights Archive YouTube channel, the contents of `desc.txt`
	is preferred to match the format of YouTube chapter markers rather than the original video's description in the
	event there are no such chapter markers.

## `data/highlights-meta/`

### `data/highlights-meta/highlights-meta-history/`
Files in here represent the state of `data/highlights-meta.json` at a given point in its history. These are used by
	the gui in the site builder to flag which meta values were added since a given image was last signed off.

### `data/highlights-meta/twitter-tweet-manual-entry/`
Since the Twitter api changes, retrieval of Twitter api data is now a manual process.
The files are generated by the site builder.

PRing new files is not yet recommended.

### `data/highlights-meta/grouped-meta.json`
Groups the meta into a more user-friendly hierarchical order. Also used by the site builder to change the sort order of
	`data/highlights-meta.json`.

### `data/highlights-meta/grouped-meta.schema.json`
Used for validating changes against grouped-meta.json, can be used by IDEs for auto-completion when editing
	`data/highlights-meta/grouped-meta.json`.

### `data/highlights-meta/image-source-signoff-done.json`
Used by the gui in the site builder to track which entry in `data/highlights-meta/highlights-meta-history/` an image
	was signed-off against.

### `data/highlights-meta/image-source-signoff-pending.json`
Used by the gui in the site builder to flag which images are pending sign off against the latest version of
	`data/hlights-meta.json`.

### `data/highlights-meta/schema-ersion-history.json`
Indicates when each version of `data/highlights-meta.json` was created. Generally corresponds to a file in
	`data/highlights-meta/highlights-meta-history/`, but some files may be absent.

## `data/authors.json`
An index of Community Highlights creators.

### `data/authors.json#unaliased`
The names extracted from `data/by-youtube-video/*/desc.txt` with the uuid generated randomly at the time they are
	processed by the site builder.

### `data/authors.json#aliased`
Creator names are not always consistently presented in `data/by-youtube-video/*/desc.txt`, due to (but not limited to):
* transcription error (one cannot generally copy/paste text from a video 🤷‍♂️)
* changes in casing or spelling across various social networks
* changes in identity or rebranding

Entries can be added to this section in advance of their corresponding file being added to `data/by-youtube-video/`

## `data/dated.json`
An index of Community Highlights videos, listed by date.

## `data/discord-images.json`
An index of Community Highlights links, the corresponding image & any appropriate caption or meta values.

Validated by `data/image-sources.schema.json`.

## `data/has-author-but-no-links.json`
Originally intended to track Community Highlights that have a listed creator but a link for the entry was not found.

Can also be used for:
* Community Highlights entries that had links at the time of being "added to the vault" but the link had been deleted
	by the time the video had been processed into the site builder.
* Community Highlights entries that have additional photoshopping added for humour by the host(s) of the
	Community Highlights segment of the dev stream.
* Community Highlights entries that have particular attention drawn to them (usually by zooming in etc.).

Entries are listed by date, then video id, then by YouTube chapter marker.

Validated by `data/yt-dlp.schema.json`.

### `data/has-author-but-no-links.json#*/*/*/timestamp`
The point in the video at which this entry starts.

### `data/has-author-but-no-links.json#*/*/*/raw_text`
The line in the description without the chapter marker prefix.

### `data/has-author-but-no-links.json#*/*/*/timestamps_for_links`
Points in the source video to extract images from. To be deprecated eventually.

### `data/has-author-but-no-links.json#*/*/*/highlightsMeta`
A list of objects representing the images for this entry & their corresponding meta values.

## `data/highlights-meta.json`
The JSON Schema file for the highlights meta values.

Processed by the site builder to keep the values in the order defined in `data/highlights-meta/grouped-meta.json`.

## `data/highlights-meta-to-add.json`
A key-value pair of new meta values and the corresponding images to apply them to.

Utilised by the site builder to defer amendments to `data/highlights-meta.json` and
	`data/highlights-meta/grouped-meta.json` as this action will lead to all file references in
	`data/highlights-meta/image-source-signoff-done.json` being flagged as out-of-date and resetting the contents of
	`data/highlights-meta/image-source-signoff-pending.json`.

## `data/image-sources.schema.json`
The JSON Schema for validating:
* `data/discord-images.json`
* `data/reddit-images.json`
* `data/twitter-images.json`
* `data/youtube-images.json`

## `data/reddit-images.json`
An index of Community Highlights links, the corresponding image & any appropriate caption or meta values.

Validated by `data/image-sources.schema.json`.

## `data/twitch-clip-image.json`
An index of Community Highlights links, the corresponding image & any appropriate caption or meta values.

Validated by `data/twitch-clip-images.schema.json`.

## `data/twitch-clip-images.json`
The JSON Schema for validating `data/twitch-clip-images.json`.

## `data/twitter-images.json`
An index of Community Highlights links, the corresponding image & any appropriate caption or meta values.

Validated by `data/image-sources.schema.json`.

## `data/youtube-images.json`
An index of Community Highlights links, the corresponding image & any appropriate caption or meta values.

Validated by `data/image-sources.schema.json`.

## `data/yt-dlp.schema.json`
The JSON Schema for validating `data/has-author-but-no-links.json`.
